---
title: Welcome to my blog!
subtitle:
    An introductory post with some code samples from the process of making this
    portfolio site!
date: Friday, June 13th, 2020

published: false

coverPhoto: https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/8/88/Portland_and_Mt._Hood_from_Pittock_Mansion.jpg
coverPhotoAltText: Portland Skyline
---

## Introduction

Hey! Thanks for checking out my website. Please, take the time to read up about
me, check out my projects, or, if you're visiting from the future, check out
some of my other posts! Moving forward, I plan to make my blog primarily about
my progress as a software engineer - I (think I) am a multi-interested person,
so topics from post to post may vary pretty significantly. However, my posts
will generally be about different projects I'm working on, technologies I'm
currently learning, or even just code/tech-related things I feel like writing
about. Posts should come out every 2-4 weeks, so check back often!

The body of this post should be detailing how I created this blog. As I've
mostly been pushing to finish this project, this particular post may be a little
bit shorter than subsequent posts should be. Also, I don't think this topic
(creating a blog with React, Next, and MDX) is particularly interesting,
considering basically everybody ever has talked about this.

As a final note, I'm still putting some final touches on the blog to improve
general site accessibility and ease-of-use from mobile. Please
[email me](mailto:jaimegensler0@gmail.com) about accessibility issues,
mobile-use issues, ~~job offers~~, broken links, or your opinion on how the site
looks / how it could be improved. Genuinely, I love constructive criticism.

With all that aside, let's dive in!

---

## Making of the blog

### The Stack

When I decided to start the project, I knew I wanted to make the site with
**Next.js** and **React** - Next.js for its easy file-based routing and general
developer ergonomics, and React because yes. I was originally leaning towards
using Ant Design and Styled Components to get the styling done, but at the
recommendation of one of my brothers, I decided to check out **Tailwind CSS**.
And holy guacermole, does Tailwind feel gooooood to write. Tailwind also
provided a better opportunity to practice my raw(ish) CSS chops than a component
library like AntD would have done, so that's another point in favor of Tailwind.

I decided early on that, since I'm writing the site from scratch and am
comfortable writing my posts in a code editor, I can just keep posts as part of
the project files and don't need an actual UI on the site to write the posts. I
also didn't feel a real need to allow comment submission on the site or to have
any display on the post (I'd rather just take emails), so I had no need for a
database.

Given that, my first instinct was to just write my posts as JSON. Any given post
might look something like this:

```js
const post = [
    {
        type: 'metadata',
        data: {
            title: 'Welcome to my blog!'
            slug: 'welcome-to-my-blog',
        }
    },
    {
        type: 'paragraph',
        data: 'This is a paragraph. There are many things that could be written here.'
    },
    ...
];
```

Then with Next.js, I'd make a `pages/blog/\[slug\].tsx` file, import all the
posts, select the particular post depending on the current route, and map over
it and turn it into JSX elements. This probably would have worked fine enough,
but it also would have turned out to be incredibly tedious. Speaking to my
brother again, he recommended I use **MDX**. With MDX, you can write the post in
Markdown (or even import React components into the `.mdx` file if necessary),
and, with some magic and the help of a few other packages, have the markdown
turned into React components. Same setup and control over the display that I had
wanted from React, significantly more pleasant to actually use.

### This is some later part

The part that I actually found the most difficult was getting the sidebar to
come together. I'm using the babel plugin `import-glob-array` to make life a
little easier.

So, whenever I write a new post, I just have to write the markdown file, and all
the imports and navigation is taken care of.
